## Generic API and Model

At this point, we want to start thinking about how to expose the MOO functionality, and what model to use designing it all. There is no sense in copying everything from LambdaCore verbatim, but we surely can take a peek to see how things are designed and why. Clearly it has a lot of good things going for it, and giving this some though is definitely worth it.

Now the MOO is *object oriented*, but it's not A PIE[^1]. Since it's missing *interfaces*, we will have to take this into consideration as it will clearly impact our possible design choices. Another big limitation is the environment itself, which doesn't tend to be developer friendly so to speak; eg. there's no easy to use IDE, no external code compiler, linter or emulator and no database designer of any sorts. And there is a **lot** of programming ahead of us... Just for comparison, LambdaCore has 223 documented @-verbs.

At a core level, we can see the world gives us objects, that are capable of containing other objects. A very simple foundation could that can be expressed in the following root model:

```
Root Class (#1)
 └ Generic Object (#?)
    └ Generic Container(#?)
```

Generic Object will become the root of the environment's object tree. As a bare object, it should not be capable of containing other objects.  
Generic Container will be it's first child. It should be capable of holding other, non-container object's. This should help limit nesting abilities.

From here we can, *in theory*, create all other objects that natively represent the MOO's capabilities.

#### Core MOO concepts

At a fundamental level, the MOO provides us with the following concepts:

- player (the person behind the keyboard typing commands)
- location (a positional abstract of where an object/player can be)
- action (the state or process of doing something)

From this we can immediately derive some generic sub concepts:

- dialog (either by verbal exchange or expressing emotions)
- inventory & movement
- interaction

With these concepts we can already start to design some concrete fundamentals. Again, not being shy of looking at LambdaCore's implementation:

```
Generic Container (#?)
 ├ Generic Player (#?)
 └ Generic Room(#?)
```

A Generic Player should be able to have some *inventory* of some kind, and should always be located in a *room*.  
A Generic Room should allow players and any non-room objects in it's inventory. It should also provide means of *looking around*, communication and traveling from one location to another.

#### A first draft

With the basic concepts defined, we can now begin to create our first draft. Once again, using LambdaCore for some guidance, where a fair amount of verbs are actually defined in the Root Class. Besides the complex bits we can see the easier elements like `description` and the `aliases` system property. Other interesting tidbits are the way how `accept` is delegated to a new verb `acceptable` and the simplicity of the `notify` verb. The benefit of putting these on `#1`, is that everything else instantly gains similar features, for it *is* the Root Class.

As we investigate more, we can see that LambdaCore defines *action* (mostly @commands) on the player object tree, while *interaction* (movement, `say`, `emote`, `look`) is on the room (eg. location). Also, the player tree is substancial, while the room tree simply delegates everything to the original *First Room* now dubbed "generic room".

To summarise, we started our journey with:

```
Root Class (#1)
 ├ System Object (#0)
 ├ The First Room (#2)
 └ Wizard (#3)
```

We then adjusted the base structure and performed a switcheroo for the Wizard:

```
Root Class (#1)
 ├ System Object (#0)
 ├ Wizard (#2)
 └ The First Room (#3)
```

We then added database driven server options:

```
Root Class (#1)
 ├ System Object (#0)
 ├ Wizard (#2)
 ├ The First Room (#3)
 └ Server Options (#4)
```

And finally, we want to end up with something that looks like:

```
Root Class (#1)
 ├ System Object (#0)
 └ Generic Object (#5)
    ├ Generic Container (#6)
    │  ├ Generic Player (#7)
    │  │  └ Wizard (#2)
    │  └ Generic Room (#8)
    │     └ The First Room (#3)
    └ Server Options (#4)
```

In the next chapter, we'll implements this simple model and continue onwards in our journey of the minimal.

[^1]: A PIE a.k.a. Abstraction, Polymorphism, Inheritance and Encapsulation; the four pillars of [OOP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming).
